# Glossary for Complexity
[ ](# ) [A](#A) [C](#C) [I](#I) 

##  

### [ Coupling ](../../software-development/complexity/coupling.md) (Concept)
 Coupling is the degree of interdependence between software modules; the strength of the relationships between modules.

## A

### [Accidental Complexity](../../software-development/complexity/accidental-complexity.md) (Concept)
complexity caused by the design or implementation of the software system.

## C

### [Cohesion](../../software-development/complexity/cohesion.md) (Concept)
Cohesion is the degree to which the elements inside a module belong together; the strength of the relationships within a module.

### [Complexity](../../software-development/complexity/complexity.md) (Concept)
degree of interdependence between software modules.

### [Connascence](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence.md) (Concept)
A software quality metric that measures the degree of coupling between software modules

### [Connascence Degree](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-degree.md) (Concept)
measures the degree of coupling between two software modules

### [Connascence Locality](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-locality.md) (Concept)
measures the locality of connascence between two software modules

### [Connascence Strength](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-strength.md) (Concept)
measures the strength of the relationship between two software modules

### [Connascence of Algorithm](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-algorithm.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the algorithm used to solve a problem

### [Connascence of Execution](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-execution.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the order in which they are executed

### [Connascence of Identity](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-identity.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the identity of an object

### [Connascence of Implementation](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-implementation.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the implementation details of a feature.

### [Connascence of Interface](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-interface.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the interface of a component.

### [Connascence of Meaning](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-meaning.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the meaning of a variable, constant, or method.

### [Connascence of Name](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-name.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the name of a variable, constant, or method

### [Connascence of Position](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-position.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the position of a variable, constant, or method

### [Connascence of Protocol](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-protocol.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the protocol used to communicate.

### [Connascence of Space](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-space.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the location of an object.

### [Connascence of Time](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-time.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the timing of an event

### [Connascence of Type](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-type.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the type of a variable, constant, or method

### [Connascence of Value](../../software-development/complexity/connascence/connascence-of-value.md) (Concept)
occurs when two or more modules must agree on the value of a variable, constant, or method

## I

### [Inherent Complexity](../../software-development/complexity/inherent-complexity.md) (Concept)
complexity intrinsic to the problem domain.




(generated by Overarch with template views/glossary-view.md.cmb)