
# Customer feedback (Concept)
## Description
Drive better organizational outcomes by gathering customer feedback and incorporating it into product and feature design.


## Tags
process, capability

## Documentation
In software projects, developers often work on products for months or years, sometimes for multiple releases without validating whether the features they’re building are actually helping users solve their problems, or whether the features are being used at all.
  
  Customer feedback is part of a wider group of capabilities, including visibility of work in the value stream, working in small batches, and team experimentation, that together represent a lean approach to product management.
  
  When these capabilities are applied together, they help predict the following:
  
      * Software delivery performance, which is measured in terms of delivery speed, stability, and availability.
      * Organizational performance, which is measured in terms of profitability, market share, and productivity.
  
  DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) research shows (PDF) that teams achieve higher performance when they work in organizations that utilize those capabilities and also do the following:
  
      * Collect customer satisfaction metrics regularly.
      * Seek out and attend to customer feedback on product and feature quality.
      * Use this feedback to help design products and features.
## Other Relations
| From | Name | To | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| [Customer feedback](../../../software-development/dora/capability/customer-feedback.md) | enables | [Fast Feedback](../../../software-development/dora/capability/fast-feedback.md) |  |


## Navigation
[List of views in namespace](./views-in-namespace.md)

[List of all Views](../../../views.md)


(generated by [Overarch](https://github.com/soulspace-org/overarch) with template docs/node.md.cmb)
