
# Empowering teams to choose tools (Concept)
## Description
Empower teams to make informed decisions on tools and technologies. Learn how these decisions drive more effective software delivery.


## Tags
capability, technical, core

## Documentation
If you want to achieve higher software delivery performance and increase the job satisfaction of your technical staff, you should empower them to make informed choices about the tools and technologies they use to do their work. Research (PDF) from the DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) team shows this contributes to better continuous delivery and higher software delivery performance. Teams that can choose their own tools are able to make these choices based on how they work and the tasks they need to perform. No one knows better than practitioners what they need to be effective, so it’s not surprising that practitioner tool choice helps to drive better outcomes.
  
  Allowing teams to choose tools doesn’t mean each team is given free rein to select any tool they want. Introducing technologies without any constraints can increase technical debt and fragility. However, when you combine tool choice with other capabilities—for example, a full view of the system, fast feedback, and the understanding that they are responsible for the code that they write—it helps your technologists make wise decisions about tools they will use and need to support. This pattern has been observed at companies like Google and Netflix, where a preferred technical stack is supported by default. But if a team feels strongly that a different tool or technology is best for their case, they are free to choose it. Teams understand that their choice comes with the understanding that they must also do the work of supporting this new technical stack.
## Other Relations
| From | Name | To | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| [Empowering teams to choose tools](../../../software-development/dora/capability/empowering-teams-to-choose-tools.md) | enables | [Climate for Learning](../../../software-development/dora/capability/climate-for-learning.md) |  |


## Navigation
[List of views in namespace](./views-in-namespace.md)

[List of all Views](../../../views.md)


(generated by [Overarch](https://github.com/soulspace-org/overarch) with template docs/node.md.cmb)
