
# Team experimentation (Concept)
## Description
Innovate faster by building empowered teams that can try out new ideas without approval from people outside the team.


## Tags
process, capability

## Documentation
Even in many so-called agile teams, developers can only work on requirements or stories that are given to them. And despite the developers’ specialist knowledge, or what they discover in the development process, they can’t change those requirements and stories. In truly agile teams, what’s written on the story card is a reminder of a conversation between customers and the team. Stories start from the business outcome that they are trying to achieve or the problem they are trying to solve. Teams then decide on what needs to be done, and test whether it will achieve the outcome or solve the problem.
  
  For your organization to fully benefit from modern software development techniques, you must empower your teams to experiment with real users to achieve agreed-upon business outcomes. In this paradigm, developers can quickly prototype and test ideas as they discover more about users and about the problem, and design solutions. Teams then incorporate what they learned into the design of the product or service. Using the lean product management method, these practices help teams ship features that add value to the organization, and ship those features more frequently.
  
  Team experimentation is part of lean product management. This approach is often used in combination with capabilities like visibility of work in the value stream, working in small batches, and visibility into customer feedback. These capabilities predict software delivery performance and organizational performance.
## Other Relations
| From | Name | To | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| [Team experimentation](../../../software-development/dora/capability/team-experimentation.md) | enables | [Climate for Learning](../../../software-development/dora/capability/climate-for-learning.md) |  |


## Navigation
[List of views in namespace](./views-in-namespace.md)

[List of all Views](../../../views.md)


(generated by [Overarch](https://github.com/soulspace-org/overarch) with template docs/node.md.cmb)
