
# Version Control (Concept)
## Description
A guide to implementing the right version control practices for reproducibility and traceability.


## Tags
capability, technical, core

## Documentation
Version control systems like Git, Subversion, and Mercurial provide a
  logical means to organize files and coordinate their creation, controlled
  access, updating, and deletion across teams and organizations. Version control
  is closely related to automation. In fact, automation and continuous integration
  rely on these files for the source code of the automation itself, as well as
  the configuration to be automated and the data to be distributed.
  
  In order to improve software delivery, teams need to use version control for source
  code, test and deployment scripts, infrastructure and application configuration
  information, and the many libraries and packages they depend upon. In the version
  control system, teams must be able to query the current (and historical) state of
  their environments. Version control also offers direct benefits such as disaster
  recovery and auditability.
  
  Research shows that comprehensive use of version control, among other capabilities,
  predicts continuous delivery. In particular, version control helps you meet these
  critical requirements:
      * Reproducibility. Teams must be able to provision any environment in a fully
        automated fashion, and know that any new environment reproduced from the same
        configuration is identical. A prerequisite for achieving this goal is having
        the scripts and configuration information that are required to provision an
        environment stored in a shared, accessible system.
      * Traceability. Teams should be able to pick any environment and determine
        quickly and precisely the versions of every dependency used to create that
        environment. They should also be able to compare two versions of an
        environment and see what has changed between them.
  
  These capabilities give teams several important benefits:
  
   * Disaster recovery. When something goes wrong with an environment—for example,
     a hardware failure or a security breach—teams need to be able to reproduce
     that environment in a deterministic amount of time in order to be able to
     restore service.
   * Auditability. To demonstrate the integrity of the delivery process, teams
     must be able to show the path backward from every deployment to the elements
     it came from, including their version. You enable this through comprehensive
     configuration management combined with deployment pipelines.
   * Higher quality. The software delivery process is often subject to long
     delays waiting for development, testing, and production environments to be
     prepared. When this preparation can be done automatically from version
     control, teams can get feedback on the impact of their changes more rapidly,
     enabling teams to build quality into their software.
   * Capacity management. When teams want to add more capacity to their
     environments, the ability to create reproductions of existing servers is
     essential. This capability enables the horizontal scaling of modern
     cloud-based distributed systems.
   * Response to defects. When teams discover a critical defect, or a
     vulnerability in some component of their system, they need to release a new
     version of their software as quickly as possible. Storing all artifacts in
     version control means teams can roll back to a previously verified working
     state quickly and reliably.
  
  As environments become more complex and heterogeneous, it’s progressively
  harder to achieve these goals. It’s impossible to achieve perfect
  reproducibility and traceability for a complex enterprise system (at a
  minimum, every real system has state). Thus, a key part of configuration
  management is working to simplify the architecture, environments, and
  processes to reduce the investment required to achieve the expected
     benefits.
## Other Relations
| From | Name | To | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| [Version Control](../../../software-development/dora/capability/version-control.md) | enables | [Fast Flow](../../../software-development/dora/capability/fast-flow.md) |  |


## Navigation
[List of views in namespace](./views-in-namespace.md)

[List of all Views](../../../views.md)


(generated by [Overarch](https://github.com/soulspace-org/overarch) with template docs/node.md.cmb)
